Transcript of Chair Powell’s Press Conference 
January 28, 2026
CHAIR POWELL. Good afternoon. My colleagues and I remain squarely focused on
achieving our dual-mandate goals of maximum employment and stable prices for the benefit of
the American people. The U.S. economy expanded at a solid pace last year and is coming into
2026 on a firm footing. While job gains have remained low, the unemployment rate has shown
some signs of stabilization, and inflation remains somewhat elevated.In support of our goals, today the Federal Open Market Committee decided to leave our
policy rate unchanged. Having lowered our policy rate by 75 basis points over the course of our
previous three meetings, we see the current stance of monetary policy as appropriate to promote
progress toward both our maximum-employment and 2 percent inflation goals. I will have more
to say about monetary policy after briefly reviewing economic developments.Available indicators suggest that economic activity has been expanding at a solid pace.
Consumer spending has been resilient, and business fixed investment has continued to expand.
In contrast, activity in the housing sector has remained weak. The temporary shutdown of the
federal government likely weighed on economic activity last quarter, but these effects should be
reversed as the reopening boosts growth this quarter.
In the labor market, indicators suggest that conditions may be stabilizing after a period of
gradual softening. The unemployment rate was 4.4 percent in December and has changed little
in recent months. Job gains have remained low. Total nonfarm payrolls declined at an average
pace of 22,000 per month over the last three months; excluding government employment, private
payrolls rose at an average pace of 29,000 per month. A good part of the slowing in the pace of
job growth over the past year reflects a decline in the growth of the labor force due to lower
immigration and labor force participation, though labor demand has clearly softened as well. Other indicators, including openings, layoffs, hiring, and nominal wage growth, show little
change in recent months.

Inflation has eased significantly from its highs in mid-2022 but remains somewhat
elevated relative to our 2 percent longer-run goal. Estimates based on the consumer price index
indicate that total PCE prices rose 2.9 percent over the 12 months ending in December and that,
excluding the volatile food and energy categories, core PCE prices rose 3.0 percent. These
elevated readings largely reflect inflation in the goods sector, which has been boosted by the
effects of tariffs. In contrast, disinflation appears to be continuing in the services sector. Nearterm measures of inflation expectations have declined from last year’s peaks, as reflected in both
market- and survey-based measures. Most measures of longer-term expectations remain
consistent with our 2 percent inflation goal.Our monetary policy actions are guided by our dual mandate to promote maximum
employment and stable prices for the American people. At today’s meeting, the Committee
decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 3½ to 3¾ percent.Since last September, we have lowered our policy rate 75 basis points, or ¾ of
a percentage point, bringing it within a range of plausible estimates of neutral. This
normalization of our policy stance should help stabilize the labor market while allowing inflation
to resume its downward trend toward 2 percent once the effects of tariff increases have passed
through. We are well positioned to determine the extent and timing of additional adjustments to
our policy rate based on the incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks.
Monetary policy is not on a preset course, and we will make our decisions on a meeting-bymeeting basis.
To conclude, the Fed has been assigned two goals for monetary policy: maximum
employment and stable prices. We remain committed to supporting maximum employment,
bringing inflation sustainably to our 2 percent goal, and keeping longer-term inflation
expectations well anchored. Our success in delivering on these goals matters to all Americans.
We at the Fed will continue to do our jobs with objectivity, integrity, and a deep commitment to
serve the American people.Thank you. I look forward to your questions.CHRIS RUGABER. Hi. Chris Rugaber at Associated Press. Thank you. I wanted to
ask—you attended the Supreme Court hearing last week on the Lisa Cook case, and Treasury
Secretary Scott Bessent criticized that as political. Can you say why you attended and what you
would say in response to the secretary’s criticism?CHAIR POWELL. So let me start with, I don’t respond to comments by other officials,
whoever they may be. It’s just not appropriate to do that. I will tell you why I attended. I would
say that that case is perhaps the most important legal case in the Fed’s 113-year history. And as I
thought about it, I thought it might be hard to explain why I didn’t attend. In addition, Paul
Volcker went to a Supreme Court case famously in, I guess, 1985 or so, so it’s precedented, and I
thought it was an appropriate thing, and I did it.
CHRIS RUGABER. Great. And then just quickly follow on, the job market—you
mentioned last month that the household survey might be distorted, and you also mentioned the
potential for overcounting jobs, which would suggest that we’re still in a negative hiring pace.
So do you see the drop in the unemployment rate as solid? And I’m just—what’s the basis for
saying that things have stabilized? Thank you.