What really won the trillion-dollar Supreme Court case

There is a mahogany podium at the Supreme Court of the United States. One person died there, mid-argument, a stroke. Another collapsed there, dying soon thereafter. That's the podium.

00:23
It also happens to be where I practice law. The most powerful court on earth. Nine minds ready to attack -- and you stand 10 feet away from them. There are no prepared speeches in this court. Instead, 50 questions thrown at you in 30 minutes. I'm making hundreds of decisions in real time. Every argument I choose to make or not make, every word, every pause, every tone. There are no rewinds. Flinch and the justices pounce. That's my courtroom. But each of you has something like that. A place in which words matter. The right words can win and the wrong words [make a] huge difference.

01:13
Five months ago, I stood before that podium asking the Supreme Court to do something it had never done in its history: declare a president’s four-trillion-dollar signature initiative unconstitutional.

01:28
(Applause)

01:34
And I had a secret. April 2, 2025. The president dusts off a 1977 law and imposes tariffs on virtually every country on earth. No congressional vote -- nothing like that whatsoever -- just his word. And here’s what’s at stake: if the president can command the global economy by yelling emergency, what can't he do? Checks and balances don't just bend, they break.

02:06
I was hired to kill it. Legal scholars, commentators [and] my own colleagues said it was impossible. They said the president has nominated three of the justices on the court, and three others were appointed by Republican presidents. They're not going to go against their president, they said. I thought that was wrong.

02:29
But the real problem was that the Supreme Court never in its history, in 237 years, has declared a signature initiative of the president unconstitutional. I was hired to do what no lawyer had done in 237 years. My first thought? "Hell, yes."

02:49
(Laughter)

02:51
My second thought? “What in the world is wrong with me?” People have died at that podium, and I'm about to tell the world's most powerful man he can't do what he just did?" I had the self-preservation instincts of a moth near a bug zapper.

03:08
(Laughter)

03:12
So for months, I prepared for the argument of my life. Three weeks before that argument, one of my own teammates decided to try and take me down so that he could argue the case. He campaigned, he lobbied, he made calls. Just a few days before the argument, about two weeks, The Washington Post runs an editorial somehow, and I’m going to read this to you word for word: "Strategic mistake." I read it over breakfast. Look, I don't begrudge the guy. I mean, whatever.

03:52
(Laughter)

03:55
I had more important things to do because I wasn't replaced. Up I walked to that mahogany podium, and I won. The President's tariffs declared unconstitutional.

04:06
(Applause)

04:10
OK, look, I know how this sounds. Lawyer wins big case, gets a fancy TED talk invitation, talks for 14 minutes about how great he is. I’ve seen that guy at dinner parties -- nobody stays for dessert. So that's not what this is. This is the behind-the-scenes story of four teachers that helped me connect. And it's also about one secret that I've never told anyone about when I walked out of that courtroom.

04:40
[The] first connection I needed was with myself. I was terrified of blowing the case. And that Washington Post editorial didn’t help matters. A month before the argument, I met Ben. Ben coaches sports legends, Andre Agassi, Olympians and the like. His whole thing is about “game day.” That moment when everything you’ve been preparing for either shows up, or it doesn't. Ben's first question to me: "What are you afraid of?" Now look, at that point, I’d argued 52 cases. I’d saved the Voting Rights Act. I'd struck down the Guantanamo military tribunals. But Ben forced me to admit a truth I'd buried from myself. Every time I walked into the court, I looked at those portraits on the walls and thought: they don’t look like me, I don't belong here. Imposter syndrome doesn't care about how many cases you won. It cares about only your doubts. Ben didn’t dismiss this. He worked with it. He had me write down five adjectives and visualize them every day before our pretend court.

05:48
About 18 hours before the argument, Ben calls and says, “How are you feeling?” And I say, "Honestly, I'm terrified. I've got to do a great job. I've got to remember 500 things. I've got to deliver an argument for history." Ben says, “You know, change the vowel, use an ‘e’ instead of an ‘o.’” He says, "What do you get to do?" And instantly it pours out of me: "I get to defend the Constitution of the United States. I get to, the son of immigrants, remind the country of what it's about. I get to defend my parents' vision of America."

06:27
(Cheers and applause)

06:33
One letter. The terror didn't disappear, but it transformed into joy. So was Ben the secret, an elite sports coach, who teaches people about mindset? No. But he got me ready.

06:48
The second thing I needed was connection to information at scale. I assembled the most relentless legal team in the country. They stress-tested every argument until only the best ones survived. But I needed more. I needed someone who was absolutely relentless. I found Harvey. Harvey reads the 200th tariff case the same way as he reads the first.

07:16
Shoot. Honestly, this is my first time using PowerPoint. I've given hundreds of speeches --

07:21
(Laughter)

07:22
I didn't want to use it, but they told me to. So anyway --

07:27
(Laughter)

07:29
The picture's not coming up, but that's fine. Don't worry about it. So let's see. OK, fine, good, we're good. You know, a month before the argument, Harvey told me that I should expect a question from Justice Barrett about license fees. And the yellow is what Harvey told me to predict, and blue is what Justice Barrett actually said at the argument. It's almost verbatim. So Harvey taught me peripheral vision: the idea [that] if you read a lot, you can see patterns and come up with stuff and anticipate the angles of attack before it arrived. So was this secret a team of relentless lawyers who never slept, who pressure-tested everything? Closer, but that's not it either.

08:12
The third thing I needed was the hardest. And it’s something we’ve been talking about today: connection. Here, I needed to connect with nine very skeptical legal minds and to do so in real time. Enter Liz, my improv coach. What does improv have to do with the Supreme Court of the United States? Everything. Liz's secret: “Neal, you need to actually listen. Actually listen.” She taught me to quiet my own thoughts and to trust myself to come up with the words after the other person had spoken. That’s the essence of “yes, and.” Absorb the question and then build on it. When the justices attacked, I validated their concerns and then bridged back. The interrogation became a dialogue. The room's energy flipped.

09:08
(Audio) NKK: This power, as Justice Gorsuch said, as Justice Barrett said, is going to be stuck with us forever.

09:15
Justice Alito, I think you've said many times, the purpose isn't what you look at, you look to actually what the government is doing.

09:21
Thank you, Justice Kavanaugh. So, five answers on the Nixon precedent.

09:25
Tariffs are constitutionally special because our Founders feared revenue raising, unlike embargoes. There was no Boston Embargo Party, but there was certainly a Boston Tea Party.

09:37
Justice Sotomayor, I wish I had an hour to talk about this with you, because this argument by the government is wrong every which way.

09:44
Justice Alito: I wonder if you ever thought that your legacy as a constitutional advocate would be "the man who revived the non-delegation argument?"

09:54
NKK: Heck, yes, Justice Alito.

09:55
So was the secret an improv coach who taught a lawyer to “yes, and” the justices? That would be a hell of a TED talk. But no, that's not it either.

